README.md, before:

# Transformer-Informal-Formal-IDLang
Implementation of a Transformer model to differentiate between formal and informal Indonesian sentences

## Method
1. Vectorize sentences into a matrix of token counts. One token is one word in a sentence.
2. Utilize the encoder part of the Transformer architecture to encode the input vector.
![Encoder part of Transformer](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*b_S-hDPoTrro9jVEaQ9QGg.png)
3. Classify the encoded sentence, where 1 = formal and 0 = informal.

## Requirements
1. Ubuntu 18.04
2. Python 3.8
3. Numpy 1.22.3
4. Tensorflow 2.8.0
5. Pandas 1.4.2
6. Scikit-learn 1.0.2

## How to run
1. Install the necessary packages and ensure that the environment follows the requirements above
2. Simply run the command below
```python
python run.py
```
3. The resulting model and training log are saved inside the "result/" folder at the end of training and validation.

## Dataset
1. Created by the author of this repository himself.
2. The dataset is composed of 58 formal and 67 informal Indonesian sentences for a total of 125 sentences
3. Dataset will be split into: training dataset (80 sentences), validation dataset (20 sentences), and test dataset (25 sentences) 

### References
1. https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762 (the original paper on Transformer)
2. https://keras.io/examples/nlp/text_classification_with_transformer/ (reference Transformer implementation)

Commit message:

Add training and validation result visualization

README.md, after:

# Transformer-Informal-Formal-IDLang
Implementation of a Transformer model to differentiate between formal and informal Indonesian sentences

## Method
1. Vectorize sentences into a matrix of token counts. One token is one word in a sentence.
2. Utilize the encoder part of the Transformer architecture to encode the input vector.
![Encoder part of Transformer](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*b_S-hDPoTrro9jVEaQ9QGg.png)
3. Classify the encoded sentence, where 1 = formal and 0 = informal.

## Requirements
1. Ubuntu 18.04
2. Python 3.8
3. Numpy 1.22.3
4. Tensorflow 2.8.0
5. Pandas 1.4.2
6. Scikit-learn 1.0.2

## How to run
1. Install the necessary packages and ensure that the environment follows the requirements above
2. Simply run the command below
```python
python run.py
```
3. The resulting model and training log are saved inside the "result/" folder at the end of training and validation.
4. Run the command below to generate training and validation progression graphs
```python
python visualize.py
```

## Dataset
1. Created by the author of this repository himself.
2. The dataset is composed of 58 formal and 67 informal Indonesian sentences for a total of 125 sentences
3. Dataset will be split into: training dataset (80 sentences), validation dataset (20 sentences), and test dataset (25 sentences) 

### References
1. https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762 (the original paper on Transformer)
2. https://keras.io/examples/nlp/text_classification_with_transformer/ (reference Transformer implementation)
